src/content/pages/about/index.mdx, before:

---
title: About Eva
description: Pushing pixels (non-derogatory).
datePublished: 2023-10-03 01:03:55-04:00
dateModified: 2024-06-14 19:05:49
ogImage: ./img1200.webp
---

I began coding in the late 2000s, typing into a textarea of vBulletin for a Nintendo fan forum. Without syntax highlighting, `border-radius`, or `flexbox`, I'd spend hours exporting assets from Photoshop and laying out content in CSS.

Type a few characters, and suddenly every `button` changes colors on hover. (From blue to... a slightly different blue!) I thought this was the coolest thing in the world.

I still think coding is cool.

Most of my job titles have included the word "designer", but code is my medium and the browser is my favorite design tool. I believe that designing for the web means working _in the medium_ of the web—namely, HTML and CSS. Interactive mediums deserve interactive iteration.

I love the web, but when I need to think about gnarly problems, I take my sketchbook and my pen, I find a quiet place, and I write.

For the past three years, I've worked as a freelance designer and developer, embedding on teams to strengthen design systems. I try to help designers learn more about code, and I try to convince engineers they have better design instincts than they think. Sometimes I succeed.

Occasionally I play piano and listen to city pop and noodle with synths. I like [reading](https://goodreads.com/evadecker) about urbanism, transit, and queer history. I'd like to have a garden one day. I'm still a Nintendo fan.

I'm **not** currently available for new freelance or full-time work, but you can still [download my resume](/downloads/eva-decker-resume.pdf). I'm always open to chats and coffee in NYC. Say hello!

Commit message:

feat: Add eva.town badge! (#473)

src/content/pages/about/index.mdx, after:

---
title: About Eva
description: Pushing pixels (non-derogatory).
datePublished: 2023-10-03 01:03:55-04:00
dateModified: 2024-06-26 02:08:14-04:00
ogImage: ./img1200.webp
---

import BadgeBanner from "../../../components/BadgeBanner.astro";

I began coding in the late 2000s, typing into a textarea of vBulletin for a Nintendo fan forum. Without syntax highlighting, `border-radius`, or `flexbox`, I'd spend hours exporting assets from Photoshop and laying out content in CSS.

Type a few characters, and suddenly every `button` changes colors on hover. (From blue to... a slightly different blue!) I thought this was the coolest thing in the world.

I still think coding is cool.

Most of my job titles have included the word "designer", but code is my medium and the browser is my favorite design tool. I believe that designing for the web means working _in the medium_ of the web—namely, HTML and CSS. Interactive mediums deserve interactive iteration.

I love working digitally, but when I need to think about gnarly problems, I take my sketchbook and my pen, I find a quiet place to sit, and I write.

I currently work at [Scribe](https://scribehow.com) as a Senior Design Engineer. Previously, I spent time building things at [Cityblock](https://cityblock.com), [Dropbox](https://dropbox.com), and [Swiftype](https://swiftype.com). You can [download my resume here](/downloads/eva-decker-resume.pdf).

In my free time I play piano and listen to city pop and noodle with synths. I like [reading](https://goodreads.com/evadecker) about urbanism, transit, and queer history. I'd like to have a non-digital garden one day—one with dirt.

Always open to chats and coffee in NYC. [Say hello!](mailto:hey@evadecker.com)

<BadgeBanner />
