README.md, before:

# Eva Decker

![Vercel](https://vercelbadge.vercel.app/api/evadecker/evadecker.com) [![Playwright](https://github.com/evadecker/evadecker.com/actions/workflows/playwright.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/evadecker/evadecker.com/actions/workflows/playwright.yml) [![HTML5 Validation](https://github.com/evadecker/evadecker.com/actions/workflows/w3c.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/evadecker/evadecker.com/actions/workflows/w3c.yml) ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/evadecker/evadecker.com)

This is the source code that powers [evadecker.com](https://evadecker.com). It's created with [Astro](https://astro.build/) and hosted on [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/).

## Colophon

**Synth Samples**

- Toy Piano by [Bolder Sounds](https://www.boldersounds.com/index.php?main_page=product_music_info&products_id=71)
- Harp by user [Samulis](https://freesound.org/people/Samulis/) on [Freesound](https://freesound.org/people/Samulis/packs/21029/)
- Xylophone by [Soundpacks](https://soundpacks.com/free-sound-packs/xylophone-samples-pack/)
- Banjo by [Philharmonia Orchestra Sound Samples](https://www.philharmonia.co.uk/explore/sound_samples/banjo)
- Ocarina by [Precisionsound](https://store.precisionsound.net/shop/peruvian-ocarina/)
- RuPaul’s Drag Race © Viacom International, manually sourced and sampled
- Murloc © Blizzard, sourced from [HearthSounds](https://maxtimkovich.com/hearthsounds?q=murloc)
- Super Mario World © Koji Kondo & Nintendo, sourced from [The Mushroom Kingdom](https://themushroomkingdom.net/media/smw/wav)

**Fonts**

- Nimbus Sans and Nimbus Sans Extended by URW Type Foundary via [Adobe Fonts](https://fonts.adobe.com/fonts/nimbus-sans)
- Minion 3 by Robert Slimbach via [Adobe Fonts](https://fonts.adobe.com/fonts/minion-3)
- 04b by [Yuji Oshimoto](http://www.04.jp.org/)

Commit message:

Install Roc Grotesk and Loretta

README.md, after:

# Eva Decker

![Vercel](https://vercelbadge.vercel.app/api/evadecker/evadecker.com) [![Playwright](https://github.com/evadecker/evadecker.com/actions/workflows/playwright.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/evadecker/evadecker.com/actions/workflows/playwright.yml) [![HTML5 Validation](https://github.com/evadecker/evadecker.com/actions/workflows/w3c.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/evadecker/evadecker.com/actions/workflows/w3c.yml) ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/evadecker/evadecker.com)

This is the source code that powers [evadecker.com](https://evadecker.com). It's created with [Astro](https://astro.build/) and hosted on [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/).

## Colophon

**Synth Samples**

- Toy Piano by [Bolder Sounds](https://www.boldersounds.com/index.php?main_page=product_music_info&products_id=71)
- Harp by user [Samulis](https://freesound.org/people/Samulis/) on [Freesound](https://freesound.org/people/Samulis/packs/21029/)
- Xylophone by [Soundpacks](https://soundpacks.com/free-sound-packs/xylophone-samples-pack/)
- Banjo by [Philharmonia Orchestra Sound Samples](https://www.philharmonia.co.uk/explore/sound_samples/banjo)
- Ocarina by [Precisionsound](https://store.precisionsound.net/shop/peruvian-ocarina/)
- RuPaul’s Drag Race © Viacom International, manually sourced and sampled
- Murloc © Blizzard, sourced from [HearthSounds](https://maxtimkovich.com/hearthsounds?q=murloc)
- Super Mario World © Koji Kondo & Nintendo, sourced from [The Mushroom Kingdom](https://themushroomkingdom.net/media/smw/wav)

**Fonts**

- Roc Grotesk Variable by Nikola Kostić via [Adobe Fonts](https://fonts.adobe.com/fonts/roc-grotesk-variable)
- Loretta Variable by Abel Martins and Joana Correia via [Adobe Fonts](https://fonts.adobe.com/fonts/loretta-variable)
- 04b by [Yuji Oshimoto](http://www.04.jp.org/)
