src/content/posts/embrace-friction/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Embrace friction
description: On letterpress, tech, and the power of going slow.
datePublished: 2025-12-08 12:26:21-05:00
dateModified: 2025-12-08 14:39:52-05:00
img:
  src: ./letterpress-workstation.jpg
  alt: A letterpress workstation showing a large wooden case full of metal type.
ogImage: ./letterpress-workstation.jpg
---

This weekend, I attended a letterpress course at the [Center for Book Arts](https://centerforbookarts.org/) in NYC. I love working with and reading about typography, but until now, most of my interactions with type have been mediated through a digital display. I was thrilled to get physical. To touch the type!

We learned about the [Vandercook proof press](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vandercook), an imposing steel machine from the early 20th century. We selected typefaces from the Center’s many cases of lead type. And over the span of two days, each of us set a page of text to print.

<figure class="no-bleed">

![Three proof presses are lined up against the windows within a brick-walled studio in New York. Against cans of paint and cases of metal type are visible.](./vandercook-presses.jpg)

  <figcaption>
    **Vandercook proof presses.** Located at the Center for Book Arts.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Letterpress is slow, methodical work. Instructor [Sarah Nicholls](https://www.sarahnicholls.com/) says it “reshapes your relation to time.” Every letter, space, and detail is placed individually, entire forms composed by hand. Nicholls uses letterpress as the final step in her editing process—it forces deep consideration of every word’s purpose.

<figure>

![A letterpress workstation shows a wooden case full of metal characters of type.](./letterpress-workstation.jpg)

  <figcaption>
    **Letterpress workstation.** On the left, a case of 18pt Caslon #540 lead type. Above, a reference using the [California job case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/California_job_case) layout. On the right, a metal galley plate and composition stick, where type is being arranged.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Setting each character within the composition stick, you feel the shape of words. Physically, yes, but linguistically, too. There is a poetry to the shapes that form language. I felt this intimately, setting Ursula K. Le Guin's translation of the twenty-five hundred year-old [Tao Te Ching](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tao_Te_Ching).

As I composed my page, letter by letter, I thought about friction. Friction shapes our relation to a system. It is difficult to set type in letterpress, so I say less, with more intention. It is easy to type on a computer, so I say more. If I wanted to set this blog post in letterpress, it would take me a week or more. Would I use all of these words?

<figure>
  <div class="two-up">
    ![Blocks of text are arranged and tied with twine. The blocks rest in the corner of a metal tray called a galley.](./taoing-preprint.jpg)

    ![The blocks of text are arranged in the center of the metal bed on the Vandercook press, positioned securely by steel blocks.](./vandercook-press.jpg)

  </div>
  <figcaption>
    **Setting type for print.** Blocks are arranged individually on a composition stick, then moved to a galley before being placed and secured on the Vandercook press for printing.
  </figcaption>
</figure>


Tools like ChatGPT take friction(-lessness) to a new extreme, where even writing is not required: only a rough impulse about the result you want. What do we lose when we abandon taking time to shape language? What meaning is made from pressing buttons on a text extrusion machine?

New technology often prizes itself on being "frictionless". But is lack of friction always a worthwhile goal? Thoughtfulness requires time. Learning requires time. Friction, ever obstinate, forces us to slow down. When we slow down, we may discover things that are easy to miss when zooming by at quicker speeds.

In a world that constantly demands we move faster and be more productive, there is joy to be found in doing less, more slowly, with greater intent.

<figure class="no-bleed">

![Taoing. The way you can go isn't the real way. The name you can say isn't the real name. Heaven and earth begin in the unnamed: name's the mother of the ten thousand things. So the unwanting soul sees what's hidden, and the ever-wanting soul sees only what it wants. Two things, one origin, but different in name, whose identity is mystery. Mystery of all mysteries! The door to the hidden.](./taoing.jpg)

  <figcaption>
    **Taoing, from Tao Te Ching by Lao Tzu, translated by Ursula K. Le Guin.** Title set in [Lydian Condensed Bold](https://fontsinuse.com/typefaces/6/lydian), 48pt. Text set in [Caslon #540](https://fontsinuse.com/typefaces/5488/caslon-no-471-and-540), 18pt.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

The penultimate line of "Taoing" ends with an exclamation point. After carefully arranging the preceding sixteen lines, letter by letter, over two days, placing that exclamation point exploded like a firework inside of me.

Bang! I felt it.

I felt it because I was going slow enough to notice.

---

The Center for Book Arts offers many [workshops](https://shop.centerforbookarts.org/collections/workshops) for letterpress, risograph printing, book binding, and more. I sincerely recommend taking a class if you're in the NYC area. I will definitely be returning.

Commit message:

Link to friction and touch

src/content/posts/embrace-friction/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Embrace friction
description: On letterpress, tech, and the power of going slow.
datePublished: 2025-12-08 12:26:21-05:00
dateModified: 2025-12-10 10:14:54-05:00
img:
  src: ./letterpress-workstation.jpg
  alt: A letterpress workstation showing a large wooden case full of metal type.
ogImage: ./letterpress-workstation.jpg
---

This weekend, I attended a letterpress course at the [Center for Book Arts](https://centerforbookarts.org/) in NYC. I love working with and reading about typography, but until now, most of my interactions with type have been mediated through a digital display. I was thrilled to get physical. To touch the type!

We learned about the [Vandercook proof press](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vandercook), an imposing steel machine from the early 20th century. We selected typefaces from the Center’s many cases of lead type. And over the span of two days, each of us set a page of text to print.

<figure class="no-bleed">

![Three proof presses are lined up against the windows within a brick-walled studio in New York. Against cans of paint and cases of metal type are visible.](./vandercook-presses.jpg)

  <figcaption>
    **Vandercook proof presses.** Located at the Center for Book Arts.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Letterpress is slow, methodical work. Instructor [Sarah Nicholls](https://www.sarahnicholls.com/) says it “reshapes your relation to time.” Every letter, space, and detail is placed individually, entire forms composed by hand. Nicholls uses letterpress as the final step in her editing process—it forces deep consideration of every word’s purpose.

<figure>

![A letterpress workstation shows a wooden case full of metal characters of type.](./letterpress-workstation.jpg)

  <figcaption>
    **Letterpress workstation.** On the left, a case of 18pt Caslon #540 lead type. Above, a reference using the [California job case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/California_job_case) layout. On the right, a metal galley plate and composition stick, where type is being arranged.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Setting each character within the composition stick, you feel the shape of words. Physically, yes, but linguistically, too. There is a poetry to the shapes that form language. I felt this intimately, setting Ursula K. Le Guin's translation of the twenty-five hundred year-old [Tao Te Ching](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tao_Te_Ching).

As I composed my page, letter by letter, I thought about friction. Friction shapes our relation to a system. It is difficult to set type in letterpress, so I say less, with more intention. It is easy to type on a computer, so I say more. If I wanted to set this blog post in letterpress, it would take me a week or more. Would I use all of these words?

<figure>
  <div class="two-up">
    ![Blocks of text are arranged and tied with twine. The blocks rest in the corner of a metal tray called a galley.](./taoing-preprint.jpg)

    ![The blocks of text are arranged in the center of the metal bed on the Vandercook press, positioned securely by steel blocks.](./vandercook-press.jpg)

  </div>
  <figcaption>
    **Setting type for print.** Blocks are arranged individually on a composition stick, then moved to a galley before being placed and secured on the Vandercook press for printing.
  </figcaption>
</figure>


Tools like ChatGPT take friction(-lessness) to a new extreme, where even writing is not required: only a rough impulse about the result you want. What do we lose when we abandon taking time to shape language? What meaning is made from pressing buttons on a text extrusion machine?

New technology often prizes itself on being "frictionless". But is lack of friction always a worthwhile goal? Thoughtfulness requires time. Learning requires time. Friction, ever obstinate, forces us to slow down. When we slow down, we may discover things that are easy to miss when zooming by at quicker speeds.

In a world that constantly demands we move faster and be more productive, there is joy to be found in doing less, more slowly, with greater intent.

<figure class="no-bleed">

![Taoing. The way you can go isn't the real way. The name you can say isn't the real name. Heaven and earth begin in the unnamed: name's the mother of the ten thousand things. So the unwanting soul sees what's hidden, and the ever-wanting soul sees only what it wants. Two things, one origin, but different in name, whose identity is mystery. Mystery of all mysteries! The door to the hidden.](./taoing.jpg)

  <figcaption>
    **Taoing, from Tao Te Ching by Lao Tzu, translated by Ursula K. Le Guin.** Title set in [Lydian Condensed Bold](https://fontsinuse.com/typefaces/6/lydian), 48pt. Text set in [Caslon #540](https://fontsinuse.com/typefaces/5488/caslon-no-471-and-540), 18pt.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

The penultimate line of "Taoing" ends with an exclamation point. After carefully arranging the preceding sixteen lines, letter by letter, over two days, placing that exclamation point exploded like a firework inside of me.

Bang! I felt it.

I felt it because I was going slow enough to notice.

---

The Center for Book Arts offers many [workshops](https://shop.centerforbookarts.org/collections/workshops) for letterpress, risograph printing, book binding, and more. I sincerely recommend taking a class if you're in the NYC area. I will definitely be returning.

---

Edit, December 10: After publishing, I came across a related article by [tante](https://tante.cc/about/) about friction, AI, loneliness, and touch:

> [...] friction is not just “things not working properly”, it can also be read as _being touched_. Just as crowded spaces create friction by other people being in my way while moving, a process with friction makes me feel other people's work, their point of view and how it differs from mine, makes me feel their needs and wants. Friction is part of what being in, being part of society _is_.
> 
> <cite>[Friction and not being touched](https://tante.cc/2025/07/30/friction-and-not-being-touched/)</cite>

It's worth reading in full.
